What is this nine point eight meters per second squared really mean?
Well, acceleration is a change in velocity over a certain amount of time.
So for every one second, the velocity increases by or changes by nine point eight meters per second,
it's a change in velocity over a certain amount of time.
So based on this information, for every one second, the velocity increases by nine point eight meters
per second.
What velocity does our book hit the floor?
OK, so let's talk about this here.
Let's do a approximation.
Let's do a little estimation here.
So at zero seconds, when we drop the book, how fast is the book going at zero seconds.
Well, we're just letting go of the book.
We're not throwing the book down.
We're not throwing the book up.
So the initial velocity at zero seconds is going to be zero meters per second.
OK, so based on our definition, for every one second, the velocity increases by nine point eight
meters per second after one second, what's the book's velocity?
Oh, it's nine point eight meters per second.
OK, well, after two seconds, once again, for every second, the velocity increases by or changes
by nine point eight meters per second.
So after two seconds, what is the velocity of the book?
Nineteen point six meters per second.
And so what do I do there?
Well, we have nine point eight plus another nine point eight or nine point eight times to well, give
us to nineteen point six.
And that's the velocity.
What about after three seconds?
Well, nine point eight plus another nine point eight plus another nine point eight or simply nine point
eight times three gets us to twenty nine point four meters per second.
So in our previous problem.
Well, I want to do here is OK, so once again, we're going to be looking at at what velocity does
our book hit the floor?
OK, so we're going to be using the time that we should have gone, not the time that we calculated.
So let's actually just look at use point five, five seconds.
OK, so just come back over here.
I'm going to do some erasing.
We're not going to be using this anymore.
The time that we're going to be using is our point five five, the time that we should have gotten in
our experiment.
So zero point five, five seconds if we're doing an approximation over here, point five, five seconds
is between which two of these time frames that were here.
So we have zero seconds.
One second, two seconds.
Three seconds.
Hey, nought point five five is going to be between zero and one.
So I'm thinking if I'm to just estimate this, I'm thinking that the velocity at which the book hits
the floor will be between nine meters per second and zero.
Let's just do a little estimate here.
If it's impactive, that's roughly half just going to do this.
My head right now, let's actually just say, hey, Noah, I'm thinking roughly five meters per second
is a good rough, I guess, over here.
So let's actually just calculate this out now.
So we're interested in our final velocity.
Hey, look at this.
We have so much given information over here.
We don't need to do our kids solutions.
All we have to do is come over here and say, hey, any one of these formulas that has to do with final
velocity.
I could use that because I have so much given information over here.
We could use any one of these formulas.
Now, once again, it has to do with final velocity.
We're not going to use this one now because that has to do with average.
So we're, for the most part, just going to be using these formulas down here.
So look at this.
Final velocity is by itself already on the left hand side the equation.
I think it would be very easy to just use this formula because once again, it's already on the left
hand side the equation just like this one.
But we actually do have this squared over here, so I don't want to be dealing with that.
Let's keep things simple and keep in mind, A, we have all of these variables.
We have the final shape, we have the initial height.
We have all these other variables that we could really use any one of these except for this one right
here, which doesn't have final velocity.
And so equation number five is really the only equation that we can't be using Haixun.
What if we were to use equation number four?
We have final velocity in here.
It's going to just take a little bit more work at the very end when we're having to solve for final
velocity.
I don't want to do that.
I just want to use this one, which is this one right here.
It's already solved that for final velocity.
So that's the equation that I'm going to choose to use.
The F is equal to V I plus our acceleration times Delta T, let's do our substitutions here.
Initial velocity of zero plus are negative nine point eight times R Delta T, which is zero point five
five oh.
We have to do this in the calculator and we get our answer.
This zero provides no value, so we have a plus negative nine point eight times point five five three
negative five point three nine meters per second.
Hey, our guest was a pretty spot on.
Well, not exactly, but pretty close.
Hey, wait a minute.
Once again, why is it negative?
Well.
What is the negative represent the direction, which direction, this object?
Well, it's falling down to the ground, so the negative here represents direction.
So we were able to calculate the velocity at which the the object hits the floor.
So once again, this is the velocity that the object that the book, the box, whatever, that KISS's
hits the floor at this velocity.
One thing I do want to actually have to keep in mind is this.
Let's come back to our kinematic equations.
Like I said, you could have used equations three, four or six.
Keep in mind this, when you plug in all of your values over here, the very last step that you're going
to have to do is we don't care about the F squared.
We would have to take the square root of both sides of the equation.
And whenever you take the square root of a number in your calculator, you will get a positive answer.
We want to make sure that we do include the negative side to represent our direction.
Don't try not to actually fall for things like that.
If you if you do say, hey, what?
The final velocity is five point three nine meters per second and in the downwards direction, maybe
your professor or teacher will accept that kind of answer, but really just make sure that you include
the negative sign.
It would actually be more accurate if we were to say these values are negative because once again,
velocity is a vector and vectors have both of magnitude of value as well as direction.
So it would actually be more accurate for us to include these negatives here, including over here as
well as this, because not only is velocity a vector, but also acceleration is as well.
So once again, these negatives are just representing the direction.